---
title: "Why code review?"
date: 2024-12-17
draft: true
toc: true
readTime: true
---

## My take on Code Review
If someone ask me to give a one sentence summary on what code review is, I would say:
>\> **Code review is a technical process with cultural implications.**

Actually the quote is more fancy than simple, but we will get to the point. All I want to say is that code review needs to be understood as part the
culture of your team and not just another technical procedure for engineers to deliver code safelly.

## What does code review means?
I already shared my fair piece on this topic, so why not read Google's engineers[¹](https://abseil.io/resources/swe-book/html/ch09.html) take?
> **Code review is a process in which code is reviewed by someone other than the author, often before the introduction of that code into a codebase.**

Now with all clear, the next sentence is:

> **Although that is a simple definition, implementations of the process of code review vary widely throughout the software industry.**

So we could understand that even though the concept is easy to understand, when we start to implement into our team, it reveals to be more complex than we think.

I strongly suggest you to read [this](https://abseil.io/resources/swe-book/html/ch09.html) chapter, it's long so I didn't read from start to finish on the first time, and it takes some time for
you to digest the information too, so take your time. The other point is even though it's written by Google engineers, not everything may suit you or your
organization as it does for Google, first read everything then give some days for you to digest.

Now let's go to what we all came here for **Why code review?**

## Why code review?
First things first, I like to do it, end of the history...

[...] jokes aside, thoughout my carrer I became more and more into code review, it was not just something that was needed from me, I liked to do it,
you can learn a lot and share knowledge with it.

For me the best reason to do it is **Code Correctness**[²](https://abseil.io/resources/swe-book/html/ch09.html#code_correctness).
This is more than just checking if the lint or tests are passing, engineers are going to look at that new piece of code
to see if it will be maintanable in a long run, if we are introducing new dependecies and/or breaking changes that we need to inform the user,
if the new code is following the language and team guidelines, and it gives more junior engineer the change to review and have their code reviewed by
their peers, creating the knowledge sharing that I mentioned before, all of this is *correctness*.

It's interesting because in a lot of places of the book they share
that following guidelines that the organization agreed upon are one of the key points to be able handle the giant codebase that Google have!

Nothing better to finish this with another take from the book:

> **Many reports point to the efficacy of code review in the prevention of future bugs in software.
[...] The investment in the time for code review saved time otherwise spent in testing, debugging, and performing regressions, provided that the code review process itself was streamlined to keep it lightweight. This latter point is important; code review processes that are heavyweight, or that don’t scale properly, become unsustainable.**

This book have a lot of great things to cover, I will try to have some of them on the next posts.

## Useful links
[¹ Software Engineering at Google: Code Review](https://abseil.io/resources/swe-book/html/ch09.html)

[² Code Correctness](https://abseil.io/resources/swe-book/html/ch09.html#code_correctness)